.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "AUTOXT" "1" "08/26/2005" "" "Programs and Tools"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
autoxt \- installs autoconf/make resources for Stratego/XT packages
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 7
\fBautoxt\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The autoxt utility installs autoconf/make resources for Stratego/XT packages. In particular, it installs the M4 macro file autoxt.m4 and the automake file Makefile.xt.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP
The autoxt tool is typically invoked from a bootstrap script at the top\-level of an autoconfiscated project.
.sp
.nf
#!/bin/sh
rm \-f mkinstalldirs missing install\-sh
autoxt || exit 1
mv autoxt.m4 config
autoreconf \-ifv || exit 1
.fi
.sp
To use the XT packages in your project invoke the
XT_USE_XT_PACKAGES
macro in the
configure.ac
file. The prefix of that file typically looks like the following:
.sp
.nf
AC_INIT([tiger],[1.3],[stratego\-bugs@cs.uu.nl])
AC_CONFIG_AUX_DIR([config])
AM_INIT_AUTOMAKE

# set the prefix immediately to the default prefix
test "x$prefix" = xNONE && prefix=$ac_default_prefix

XT_USE_XT_PACKAGES
.fi
.sp
In each Makefile.am
.sp
.nf
include Makefile.xt
.fi
.sp
.PP
As usual, the
\fIbootstrap\fR
script should make certain that the correct versions of
\fBautomake\fR, and
\fBautoconf\fR
are used.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Please report bugs to
<stratego\-bugs@cs.uu.nl>
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C) 2002\-2005 Eelco Visser
<visser@acm.org>
.PP
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
