.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "SDF2TABLE" "1" "08/26/2005" "" "Programs and Tools"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
sdf2table \- generates a parse table from an SDF syntax definition.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 10
\fBsdf2table\fR [\-b] [\-h] [\-i\ \fIfile\fR.def] [\-l] [\-m\ \fIname\fR] [\-n] [\-o\ \fIfile\fR.tbl] [\-s] [\-t] [\-v] [\-V]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
\fBsdf2table\fR
utility is used to compute a parse table from a syntax definition. The syntax definition must have been created from a set of
\fI.sdf\fR
files using the
\fBpack\-sdf\fR
utility, or written manually. The resulting
\fI.tbl\fR
file is used as input to the
\fBsglr\fR
parser.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fBInput/Output Options\fR
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
Write output in binary ASFix (BAF) format.
.TP
\fB\-i \fR\fB\fIfile\fR\fR\fB.def\fR
Read input from
\fI\fIfile\fR\fR\fI.def\fR. Multiple files may be specified.
.TP
\fB\-o \fR\fB\fIfile\fR\fR\fB.tbl\fR
Write output to
\fI\fIfile\fR\fR\fI.tbl\fR. If not speficied,
\fI.tbl\fR
will be added as a suffix to the input file name.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Check SDF definition and show warnings on
\fIstderr\fR.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
Normalize grammar.
.PP
\fBHelp and Debugging Options\fR
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Show usage information.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
Show statistics information.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Enable verbose mode.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Show version number.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Please report bugs to
<stratego\-bugs@cs.uu.nl>
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C) 2002\-2005 Eelco Visser
<visser@acm.org>
.PP
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
