.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "SGLRI" "1" "08/26/2005" "" "Programs and Tools"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
sglri \- parse a text file using sglri and implode using implode\-asfix
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 6
\fBsglri\fR [\-i\ \fIfile\fR] [\-o\ \fIfile\fR] [\-p\ \fIfile\fR] [\-s\ \fIsymbol\fR\ |\ \-\-start\ \fIsymbol\fR] [\-\-no\-heuristic\-filters] [\-\-sglr\ \fIopt\fR] [\-\-impl\ \fIopt\fR] [\-b] [\-S\ |\ \-\-silent] [\-\-verbose\ \fIlevel\fR] [\-k\ \fIlevel\fR\ |\ \-\-keep\ \fIlevel\fR] [\-h\ |\ \-?\ |\ \-\-help] [\-\-about] [\-\-version]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
\fBsglri\fR
utility combines the functionality of the
\fBsglr\fR
parser and the
\fBimplode\-asfix\fR
implosion tool into one convenient bundle.
\fBsglri\fR
will first invoke
\fBsglr\fR
with the parse table provided by the
\fB\-p\fR
option, then apply
\fBimplode\-asfix\fR
to the resulting parse tree. The imploded tree is then the final result of
\fBsglri\fR.
.PP
See documentation for
\fBsglr\fR
and
\fBimplode\-asfix\fR
for details on each of the components.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fBParser and Imploder Options\fR
.TP
\fB\-s \fR\fB\fIsymbol\fR\fR
Specific start symbol to use in the input grammar. Default is unspecified.
.TP
\-\-no\-heuristic\-filters
Do not use heuristic disambiguation filters. Enabling this option is highly encouraged.
.TP
\fB\-\-sglr \fR\fB\fIopt\fR\fR
Pass the option
\fIopt\fR
to
\fBsglr\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-impl \fR\fB\fIopt\fR\fR
Pass the option
\fIopt\fR
to
\fBimplode\-asfix\fR.
.TP
\fB\-s \fR\fB\fIsymbol\fR\fR
Specific start symbol to use in the input grammar. Default is unspecified.
.PP
\fBCommon Input/Output Options\fR
.TP
\fB\-i \fR\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
The input term given by the file name
\fI\fIfile\fR\fR.
.sp
In the absence of the
\fB\-i\fR
option, input will be read from
\fIstdin\fR.
.TP
\fB\-o \fR\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
The output will be written to the file given by the file name
\fI\fIfile\fR\fR.
.sp
In the absence of the
\fB\-o\fR
option, output will be written to
\fIstdout\fR.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
The output will be written in the binary (BAF) ATerm format.
.sp
ATerms in the BAF format require a lot less space than ones in the TAF format, but the Java ATerm library does not currently support baf ATerms. ATerms in the baf format is the preferred format of exchange between Stratego tools.
.PP
\fBCommon Debugging Options\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-about\fR
See
\fB\-\-version\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage information.
.TP
\fB\-\-keep \fR\fB\fIint\fR\fR
Keep intermediate results produced by the internal stages in the pretty\-printing process. This is only useful for debugging. A high value of
\fIint\fR
indicates increased eagerness for keeping intermediate results.
.sp
Default setting is 0, indicating that no intermediates will be kept.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR
Silent execution. Same as
\fB\-\-verbose \fR\fB\fI0\fR\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose \fR\fB\fIint\fR\fR
Set verbosity level to numerical value
\fIint\fR. The higher the number, the more information about pp\-aterm's inner workings are printed.
.sp
Alternatively,
\fIint\fR
can be set to either of the following verbosity levels, given in increasing order of verbosity:
\fBemergency\fR,
\fBalert\fR,
\fBcritical\fR,
\fBerror\fR,
\fBwarning\fR,
\fBnotice\fR,
\fBinfo\fR,
\fBdebug\fR,
\fBvomit\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Displays the tool name and version.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP
See the commands
\fBsglr\fR
and
\fBimplode\-asfix\fR
for examples.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Please report bugs to
<stratego\-bugs@cs.uu.nl>
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C) 2002\-2005 Eelco Visser
<visser@acm.org>
.PP
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
