.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "AST2TEXT" "1" "08/26/2005" "" "Programs and Tools"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
ast2text \- pretty\-prints an abstract syntax tree to plain text
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 9
\fBast2text\fR [\-w\ \fIwidth\fR\ |\ \-\-width\ \fIwidth\fR] [\-p\ \fIfile\fR] [\-i\ \fIfile\fR\ |\ \-\-input\ \fIfile\fR] [\-o\ \fIfile\fR\ |\ \-\-input\ \fIfile\fR] [\-b] [\-S\ |\ \-\-silent] [\-\-verbose\ \fIlevel\fR] [\-k\ \fIlevel\fR\ |\ \-\-keep\ \fIlevel\fR] [\-h\ |\ \-?\ |\ \-\-help] [\-\-about] [\-\-version]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The ast2text utility is used to pretty\-print abstract syntax trees to plain text. The utility transforms an abstract syntax tree according to formatting rules contained in pretty\-print tables. The result of ast2text is an ASCII text file. The tool is a convenience composition of
ast2abox
and
abox2text.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP
To pretty\-print an abstract syntax tree stored in the file
\fItree.trm\fR
to text according to the pretty\-print rules in
\fIrules.pp\fR
issue the following command:
.sp
.nf
$ ast2text \-i tree.trm \-p rules.pp
.fi
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fBParsing and Formatting Options\fR
.TP
\fB\-p \fR\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
Use pretty\-print rules defined in
\fIfile\fR. Multiple tables can be specified.
.sp
The
\fIfile\fR
must have the extension
\fI.pp\fR
or
\fI.pp.af\fR. The
\fI.pp\fR
extension is used for pretty\-print tables in concrete syntax. The
\fI.pp.af\fR
extension is used for pretty\-print tables that have already been parsed using
parse\-pp\-table. Using parsed pretty\-print tables improves the performance of
\fBast2abox\fR.
.TP
\fB\-w \fR\fB\fIwidth\fR\fR, \fB\-\-width \fR\fB\fIwidth\fR\fR
Specifies maximal line width. Default is 80 characters.
.PP
\fBCommon Input/Output Options\fR
.TP
\fB\-i \fR\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
The input term given by the file name
\fI\fIfile\fR\fR.
.sp
In the absence of the
\fB\-i\fR
option, input will be read from
\fIstdin\fR.
.TP
\fB\-o \fR\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
The output will be written to the file given by the file name
\fI\fIfile\fR\fR.
.sp
In the absence of the
\fB\-o\fR
option, output will be written to
\fIstdout\fR.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
The output will be written in the binary (BAF) ATerm format.
.sp
ATerms in the BAF format require a lot less space than ones in the TAF format, but the Java ATerm library does not currently support baf ATerms. ATerms in the baf format is the preferred format of exchange between Stratego tools.
.PP
\fBCommon Debugging Options\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-about\fR
See
\fB\-\-version\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage information.
.TP
\fB\-\-keep \fR\fB\fIint\fR\fR
Keep intermediate results produced by the internal stages in the pretty\-printing process. This is only useful for debugging. A high value of
\fIint\fR
indicates increased eagerness for keeping intermediate results.
.sp
Default setting is 0, indicating that no intermediates will be kept.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR
Silent execution. Same as
\fB\-\-verbose \fR\fB\fI0\fR\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose \fR\fB\fIint\fR\fR
Set verbosity level to numerical value
\fIint\fR. The higher the number, the more information about pp\-aterm's inner workings are printed.
.sp
Alternatively,
\fIint\fR
can be set to either of the following verbosity levels, given in increasing order of verbosity:
\fBemergency\fR,
\fBalert\fR,
\fBcritical\fR,
\fBerror\fR,
\fBwarning\fR,
\fBnotice\fR,
\fBinfo\fR,
\fBdebug\fR,
\fBvomit\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Displays the tool name and version.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Please report bugs to
<stratego\-bugs@cs.uu.nl>
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C) 2002\-2005 Eelco Visser
<visser@acm.org>
.PP
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
